### Facilitator Standup: July 17, 2017

**Present:** Mavis, Matt, Rebecca, Dan, Elias

**Nazareth:**
- Groups of 3 this week
- Groups working past deadline on projects
- Certain times when people resist pairing
- Day 2 of week 3 had a tough afternoon workshop
- Software architecture workshop difficult to deliver, aims unclear
- Mavis raised issue on SGC feedback last week, wondering if it's helpful in Gaza, Elias reports that it was useful
- Mavis recommends one post-SGC issue for each week, with comments from each campus - Jen recommends a markdown file for weekly mentor handover
- Lubes wonders why not use an issue, if acting on something recommended could lead to a change in the curriculum
- Jen recommends tracking feedback in the file, and raising an issue if you recommend keeping the change you made based on feedback

**Gaza:**
- Curriculum content has gone pretty well, with standard confusion on testing

-- Discuss student pastoral care --

- Course divergence: Elias is thinking of changing some of week 3, is raising an issue to explain those changes

**London:**
-- Discuss student pastoral care --

- Less of an issue with material during Week 3, but echoes Nazareth's comments about the workshop, traces it to discomfort of London mentors with the material, but students felt less pain due to consistent mentor presence

-- Discuss mentor "pastoral care" --

- Mavis requests doing the mentor handover on Thursday
- Jen wants a meeting about course divergence
